# Smart_Dustbin
IOT Based smart arbage monitoring bin: To create healthy living environment. 
PROBLEM STATEMENT: “OVER FIOW OF DUSTBIN AND UNHYGINIC SOCIETY” The biggest population concern today is the overflow of garbage. This creates unhygienic conditions for individuals and creates a bad smell in the environment which in turn leads to avoid this problem keep the environment clean and create healthyenvironment. we are bringing SMART GARBAGE MONITORING BIN.

IDEA: We used some electronic components like GSM to send the message and sensors for detection. we are bringing SMART GARBAGE MONITORING BIN.

SOLUTION: Now a days people are fascinating towards technology so we came up with a idea of clean envirnoment. It is based on IOT mechanism, The GSM module is used to send a message for updating the status of the bin of the device when the bin level exceeds the threshold limit . The system transmits the given-ID. After that, their dustbin will automaticallyclosethedoor. once the bin overloaded. The userwill notable to access the bin.the status of the bin will be able to indicate on the LED display and it will send a message with the help of GSM to concern authorities.

To prevent the bad smell. The usage of spray mechanism is done to spray fragrances and disinfectant diffuser. Smart garbage bin can be operated through both electricity and battery.Sensors used in this system help to open lid of a bin automatically with the help of servomotor. Ultrasonic sensor is used to manage level of trash in the bin. Within this frame work there are four developed subsystems. Smart waste bin, short messaging service (SMS) notification system. Real-time monitoring system, spraymechanism. For fragrances and disinfectant diffuses these are interrelated to each other to perform as an efficient, cost-effective waste management system that yield to a given and healthy living environment.
